Nonlinear dynamics is probably the topical cluster that has the longest history, at least from as far back as the 17th century when Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz invented calculus and differential equations. But it was found only in the 20th century that systems that include nonlinearity in their dynamics could show some weird behaviors,such as chaos [5, 6] (which will be discussed later). Here, nonlinearity means that the outputs of a system are not given by a linear combination of the inputs. In the context of system behavior, the inputs and outputs can be the current and next states of the system, and if their relationship is not linear, the system is called a nonlinear system
It was developed during the Cold War, when there was a need to seek a balance between the two mega powers that dominated the world at that time. The rationality of the game players was typically assumed in many game theory models, which made it possible to formulate the decision making process as a kind of deterministic dynamical system (in which either decisions themselves or their probabilities could be modeled deterministically). In this sense, game theory is linked to nonlinear dynamics. One of the many contributions game theory has made to science in general is that it demonstrated ways to model and analyze human behavior with great rigor, which has made huge influences on economics, political science, psychology, and other areas of social sciences, as well as contributing to ecology and evolutionary biology.
As the world marvels over the first public images from the James Webb Space Telescope, Webb Deputy Project Manager for Technical Verification Paul Geithner is able to recall another first-of-its-kind moment when the Webb team thought for a brief blessedly brief moment it had actually broken part of the observatory. A portion of the Webb structure, custom-made of graphite epoxy composite, underwent vibration testing at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in late 2016. Connection points in the instrument’s deployable components were stressed to see how they would hold up. All was going well, until it was not There was a loud crack. The sound was not pretty.
